---
layout: post
title: Successful defense of my first qualifying paper!
date: 2020-08-21 22:35:00-0400
inline: false
---

I have successfully defended my first qualifying paper in August 21, 2020. I am grateful for Chris Kennedy and Anastasia Giannakidou, who provided invaluable comments and great support from the beginning to the end of the process. Manuscript available upon request.

***

This paper explores a case of an embedded attitude with the use of clause type particle and the attitudinal reportative particle in Korean. The crucial example here is a case where an embedded clause alone, headed by a complementizer *-ko*, is used as an independent utterance even when it is not used as a fragment answer. This structure, which I refer to as the 'stand-alone *-ko* structure', can not only embed different types of clause type particles (e.g., declarative, interrogative, and imperative) but also have different semantic meanings depending on the boundary tone that follows. I show that the stand-alone structure can be expressed as what I refer to as the 'full form', which is an NP that embeds a CP.Grounded on an existing proposal on the choice of mood in relation to (non)veridicality, I argue that the stand-alone structure amounts to an embedded clause that encodes an epistemic agent’s attitude towards the embedded propositional content. I also suggest that the boundary tone has a function similar to that of speech act, expressing speaker’s certainty towards the embedded proposition and marking the discourse function of an ambiguous structure.

***
